Attention Is All You Need

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, Illia Polosukhin

Abstract

The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer, based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less time to train. Our model achieves 28.4 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, improving over the existing best results, including ensembles, by over 2 BLEU. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU score of 41.0 after training for 3.5 days on eight GPUs, a small fraction of the training costs of the best models from the literature.

1. Introduction

Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory and gated recurrent neural networks in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation. Numerous efforts have since continued to push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder-decoder architectures.

Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output sequences. Aligning the positions to steps in computation time, they generate a sequence of hidden states ht, as a function of the previous hidden state ht−1 and the input for position t. This inherently sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes critical at longer sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples.

The Transformer architecture relies entirely on an attention mechanism to draw global dependencies between input and output. The Transformer allows for significantly more parallelization and can reach a new state of the art in translation quality after being trained for as little as twelve hours on eight P100 GPUs.

2. Model Architecture

The Transformer follows an encoder-decoder structure using stacked self-attention and point-wise, fully connected layers for both the encoder and decoder. The encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations to a sequence of continuous representations. Given z, the decoder then generates an output sequence of symbols one element at a time.

Multi-Head Attention allows the model to jointly attend to information from different representation subspaces at different positions. With a single attention head, averaging inhibits this. The Transformer uses h = 8 parallel attention layers, or heads.

3. Results

On the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, the big transformer model outperforms the best previously reported models including ensembles by more than 2.0 BLEU, establishing a new state-of-the-art BLEU score of 28.4. The big transformer model achieves 41.0 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, outperforming all of the previously published single models, at less than 1/4 the training cost of the previous state-of-the-art model.
